# CS1 Lab - FileIO and Unittest

Possible Points: 100

Write a C++ program to read numbers from a file, perform various operations such as finding max, min, sum, average, etc., and write the results to an output file. Use functions to modularize your code. Read the problem statement carefully to design a correct solution.

## Input File Format

- The input file will contain 2 lines
- The first line of the input file will contain a single integer N, which represents the number of integers that follow.
- The second line will contain N integers separated by spaces.
- see data/sample_input.txt for an example input file.

### Input Test File

- Create your own input test file with at least 10 integers and save it to the **data** folder. You can name it `test_input.txt` or something similar.
- add your input test file to git and push it to your remote GitHub repo.

## Output File Format

- see data/sample_output.txt for an example output file.
- your program must generate an output file with the same format as shown in the sample output file. You can name it `test_output.txt` or something similar.
- add your output test file generated by the program to git and push it to your remote GitHub repo.

## Type and fix the code

1. Create the directory structure similar to this lab as shown below:

```bash
fileio/
├── data/
├── src/
│   ├── fileio.hpp
│   └── fileio.cpp
│   └── main.cpp
├── tests/
│   └── test_fileio.cpp
├── Makefile
└── README.md
└── screenshots/
```

2. Type the contents provided in `.hpp` and `.cpp` files and fix all fixmes. Write #fixed# after each #fixme.
3. Follow best programming practices by using proper white spaces, comments, etc.

## Manual Whole program test

1. Test the whole program manually. Follow the menu options to read data, find max & min, calculate sum & average, and delete data.
2. Create screenshots of your tests showing the input and output for each functionality and save them to the **screenshots** folder.

## Unit testing with Doctest

1. If not done before, create **doctest** folder in the **labs** root folder and copy the `doctest.h` file into it from [https://github.com/doctest/doctest/tree/master/doctest ](https://github.com/doctest/doctest/tree/master/doctest)
2. Set the doctest rule in the Makefile and run the tests. Fix any issues if found.

```bash
make doctest
```

## Submission

1. Create at least 3 screenshots showing your local manual tests and make doctest and save them to the **screenshots** folder. (10 points).
2. Update the `README.md` file (10 points) as shown here: https://github.com/rambasnet/csXXX-rbasnet

```bash
cd <main repo folder>
ls
git pull
git status
git add <each file in the red that is part of this lab>
git status
git commit -m "write brief description of what was done"
git push
git status
```

3. Make sure the files are actually pushed to your remote GitHub repo.
